[music]
>> Nice.
Come on.
Get it, Tommy. Come on.
And all you need to do is go down that
far.
Okay. Then we're going to do some
corrections after.
>> Today we've got a special guest. We've
got Tommy Hardy. And he's going for 365
kg. So, that's, you know, 3.65 times
body weight, which is damn elite. The
goal with Tommy eventually, I've given
him 12 months to achieve this and I
think it's definitely achievable, is a
400 kg squat in the 100 kg weight class.
So, this is the stepping stone. So,
right now he's 6 weeks out from
competition, even at his level. So,
check him out. This is an empty barbell.
So, that barbell weighs 25 kg. He's done
some warm-up squats, uh just body
weight. Have a look at the focus. I want
you guys to see at the highest level
what it looks like when he's going to
squat something heavy. You're going to
see it today. He's going to squat
really, really heavy. But, have a look
at how he approaches an empty barbell.
He's treating that with the same respect
as he's going to be treating
his top set, which is controlled on the
way down. He doesn't just flop up and
down. The way that he's moving
is like he's in a Smith machine. What
we're going to do today is work up to a
heavy squat, do some accessories. You're
going to see an entire session, which
will surprise you, is actually not much
work. I mean, it's going to be three top
sets of squats and then hamstring curls
and leg extensions. And you're going to
see his warm-ups, the technique, the
mindset, everything that goes behind.
The goal is 365 kg. So, hopefully we get
it. Let's do this. Best I've done in a
training session is 382.5.
Yeah. But, that was when like that was
when I was like fully peaked uh like
two, three weeks out from a competition.
Whereas today we're like say 6 weeks
out. We haven't really been peaking hard
this more this comp's more of a uh
we're just cruising into this comp. It's
just to qualify for nationals uh in
August. Uh so, that's when we're really
sending it for that. But, yeah.
Hopefully today we just hit 365
comfortably and it just sets us up for
what we can do in 6 weeks. So, that's
something that I like to do Yeah.
>> as well is start wrapping light. So,
with the technique of a squat like this
when I was at my heavy comp prep, I used
to use light wraps on the warm-up sets
because it's a slightly different
technique.
What I like to say with the knee wraps
is to push into the knee wraps. When I'm
squatting without knee wraps or just
sleeves, I use more hips in the squat.
But, when I'm using a low bar squat with
wraps, to get more out of the wraps,
you've got to push into the wraps. So,
that's why
simply wearing them when you're warming
up with a very light wrap
he doesn't need them, but it's refining
the technique. That's right. So, this is
a very light wrap. I'm going to start
wrapping him when we go heavier. And
what I like to say is
um
I'm saving the strength of my hands for
the heavy sets. Yeah. Because I'm going
to
I'm going to go super tight today,
Tommy. You good with that?
>> Yeah, definitely. Excellent. How many
reps we going here?
Do you recommend about six?
>> Yeah. Yeah, good.
I like that.
>> [snorts]
>> How was that all right?
>> That is perfection. Thanks, bro.
That's six identical squats. You know,
because I only see his top sets, you
know, because this is the whole thing of
being in a different state,
unfortunately. These are the things that
I get excited about, to be honest with
you, Tommy. Yeah. Yeah, because people
when I go and see a top set, it's like,
"Okay, great." You know, and I see the
top set, it's like, "Okay." You know,
that tells me a small part of your
session. But, the way someone warms up
really sets them up to succeed or fail.
That's right.
>> And if you want to succeed, like that's
what you need to be doing. The way that
he's moving is pure precision. That was
six identical reps. Yeah. And I have no
doubt every set is going to look very,
very similar to that. Yeah. Of course,
as we get to the top weights, it's going
to eventually start slowing down.
Probably be similar speed for the next
couple of plates. We You always tell me
make your make your warm-ups exactly
like your top sets. I don't give a [__]
what's on the bar. Beautiful. That's
what you tell me. So,
>> Beautiful.
So, there's a few ways that we can do
that, especially with knee wraps. And
this is what I like to say with the knee
wraps, if you saw how he put it on
uh not sure if many people understand,
but the tighter you go, the more you get
out of them. However, it takes a lot of
conditioning to handle tightness of knee
wraps to that degree. It actually hurts
up until you are conditioned and then it
feels nice.
So, right now, what he's doing is a very
light knee wrap. He's not getting much
support out of the knee wrap, just a
little bit of comfort. But, as we add a
little bit more weight, we go a little
bit tighter with the knee wrap. So,
we're getting a little bit more out of
the equipment. And his intensity is
something else that increases as well.
So, right now, he's calm. We're able to
talk about whatever. And it's like it's
not a very, very intense component of
this session. But, as you see, as we get
heavier and heavier, we're going to be a
little bit more serious. 365 should feel
pretty good, but yeah, I I just like to
treat it as a
you know, as a one RM like a PB because
if I treat it like that, then it's going
to feel right. If I go in a bit, you
know, blasé about it, it's going to feel
[__] I think you can like 365 kg. Yeah.
You got to take it seriously.
>> Very seriously. That's This is a like
this is not a casual session. So, the
fact is because he's done 380, 385
before, what is it? 382.5 in training,
380 in comp.
>> Because he's done that before, you don't
just walk around that strong forever. He
had to peak for that. And that's what
we're doing now is we're re-peaking.
And like we said, in in 6 weeks' time,
that competition is not it doesn't
really count for much. It's just a
qualifier. And then the real comp comes
4 months after that. So, this is a bit
of a mini peak, but at the same time
it's like if it's there he'll probably
go for whatever's available. This is all
great learning for him. And that's
definitely your big lift is your squat.
Better than your bench, better than your
deadlift.
>> I 100% yeah. You know, the eventual
goal, the current world record is 420 kg
in his weight class. Which is
mega, but I'll tell you right now with
Tommy, it's achievable. And that's what
we've come in for. We're not just
training for Okay, let's just give it
our best. We We want to be the best in
the world. And I think he's got what it
takes. Now, something like that, like
I've said, this year, I think in the
next 12 months, 400's achievable.
I'm certain we're going to get 400 this
year.
I'd say is another year or two on top of
that, which is kind of like that's the
goal setting that we've had from day
one. It's like, let's not talk about
12-week programs, 16-week programs. This
is
three, four years down the line, you've
got what it takes to get that world
record. Now, who knows if someone else
beats that world record in the meantime
and resets that goal post, but
we're here for it. Yeah. For these ones,
bro, like five or six. When it gets to
my, you know, heavier sets I usually get
someone else to wrap me. Whether it's
Vassil or Colm, Colm Webb down in
Brisbane.
They usually do about nine or 10. So,
yeah. Hey, Vass. Like with the lighter
weights, you don't want too many reps.
You just want enough just to support.
Exactly. Yeah. And also it hurts when
you go super tight. You've only got a
few sets of super, super tight. Like if
we go nine or 10 revolutions the skin
around your knees, like during the set
it's nice. Maybe you've got a top set
and one or two back down sets, which is
what we're going to be doing today. But,
then you keep on going, you just can't.
The skin's too raw. So, if you go too
tight leading up for it, going to
negatively impact
>> see the energy, too. Yeah. So, um
those wraps there are pretty soft
compared to his competition wraps. Yeah.
Yeah, so that's another strategy is to
not go all out with the knee wraps. It's
just for comfort. Just for comfort. And
just to ingrain the technique.
Come over to behind him. I want you to
see every part of this technique.
>> Okay. Are you recording? Like just
listen to what I'm saying. What we're
seeing here like
uh you know, I'm a nerd for technique.
And when I see someone moving this well,
it's like this is rare. Even at the
highest level, a lot of high-level
lifters are very, very strong, but not
technically this damn good. Tommy's
both. All right, let's go. How many,
bro? Um let's go yeah. Three three reps.
Beautiful. So, we've got 130 kg on the
bar. So, check out where he is. So, this
is a low bar squat. Right? So, he's
sitting there, that's going to be
sitting on his on his rear delts. So,
see the delt popping out underneath it?
Good. Elbows back and down for upper
back brace.
His stance is perfect. He's taken a big
breath for the unrack and he's holding
that. He's looking straight ahead from
start to finish.
Look at the toe position. It's pointing
outwards and his knee's perfectly in the
same direction. Controls the weight down
and stands with intent. So, he's not
exploding.
What a lot of people do
that are very, very strong is they you
know, not even very, very very They kind
of they treat the light weight as if
it's the heavy weight, which kind of in
theory sounds right. And that's what
we're doing. We're treating it like it's
heavy weight.
But at the same time, if he treated that
like it was 365, he'd be jumping he'd be
getting in the air. That's how much
force he has to put 365.
Don't put that much force through these
light weights.
I say stand with intent, which is just
enough force to stand under control.
Because 365 isn't going to move
explosively.
He's going to be pushed It's going to
It's a like powerlifting is slow speed
lifting. It doesn't mean we try and
intentionally move slow.
But what I like to say is slow is
smooth, smooth is fast. Okay? So it's
going to be fast for 365 kg, which is
going to be
>> More precision if anything. Yeah, good.
Perfect. The next set's going to be 180
and we're going to keep on going up in
50 kilo jumps up until 280 and then we
take 20 kg jumps. All right. Rest in
between these sets. So right now, it
doesn't matter so much. I like to say
with the warm-ups, it's all about
stimulate, not annihilate. So what we're
doing is all these weights are very easy
for Tommy. So he doesn't need a huge
amount of rest. When we get to the top
weights, he's going to be taking between
8 to 12 minutes rest between those top
sets. So his last three sets, so he's
going to do one big top set and then two
back down sets. That's going to be half
an hour just for those three sets. But
leading up to it, it's kind of just like
we load the plates, take a seat, we
re-wrap and just come in when you're
ready. Which is usually about, you know,
with this weight, it's probably going to
be about 2 minutes rest and then the
next one will probably be about 3
minutes and then gradually gradually
increase the rest periods. By the time
he's at like 280, it's going to be
probably 6 minutes and then from 280 to
305, it'll be like
maybe 8 minutes. Warm-up set's going to
be 345. From there, I'd say it's
probably going to be about 12 minutes.
We'll rest for about 10 and then I'm
going to wrap your knees, which will
take about 2 minutes and then we get
under the bar. Which some of you at home
might look at and go, "Ah, 12 minutes.
I'm going to cool down." All these
things. Firstly, you won't. When you're
lifting that much weight, you need that
much time to recover. But secondly, if
you're a powerlifter, that's how long it
takes to go through the entire lifting
flight. So he'll be up against Usually
it's about Let's just say 10 people per
flight. Would you say that's about
right?
>> Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Right. Now,
each lift takes, you know, 1 minute
between sets between attempts. You know,
maybe even more. So it's like when when
each lift it goes on, it's it's a little
bit more than a minute. So between your
attempts, it's probably going to be
about 12 minutes. Yeah. Yeah. I've had
comps where I've waited 20 minutes.
Yeah. I've waited 20 minutes and I
promise you I didn't cool down.
You know, there's adrenaline, there's
all that stuff. You don't cool down.
You've got no
You've got no choice. Yeah. You go and
they say bar's loaded. I always go back
to the story of that Eric Lillebridge
told you. So Eric Lillebridge, he
wrapped me for my first 350 kg squat. At
that time my PB was 330.
And we did a seminar together and he
came as a you know, as the presenter and
he was wrapping my knees for the first
time. And he said to me, "How long do
you normally rest between sets?"
And I was about to say 8 minutes, but I
was like, "Oh, I know he's going to
laugh at me when I say 8 minutes." And I
said 8 minutes and he did laugh at me.
I'm like, "Okay, here we go." And he
goes, "I go, how long do you take?" And
he goes, "15."
>> Yeah.
You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. It's
like, "Okay, I don't feel so silly."
Well, I feel silly for not having enough
rest.
But there's a bit of difference. He's
squatting 480 kg. Yeah.
So he's
next up. But anyway, 15 minutes is Yeah.
>> It's all relative, you know? Like
>> It's absolutely relative. So the
stronger you are, the heavier weight you
lift. Like Thor Björnsson's doing 15
minutes between his attempts for his you
know, deadlift as well. You're going a
little bit tighter on these?
>> Little bit tighter, yeah. So about two
or three more revolutions than we did on
the first two warm-ups. Beautiful.
Yeah, he's got a different wrapping
technique to what I
>> use.
Yeah. So what I'm thinking as you're
thinking it as well is on the next set,
I'm going to try and wrap his next
warm-up.
>> Yeah, it'd be good.
>> Just so that you can familiarize
yourself with the way that I I do it.
Um hopefully
it works. Yeah.
Yeah, I've been wrapped your way before,
I think. Yeah, it's really good.
>> [sighs]
>> Perfect.
Thanks, bro.
Perfect. Thanks, bro. Good job. Perfect.
Okay. Next up, another 50 kg. 230 next.
These are Harris wraps. I used to say
all the wraps are the same, but they're
absolutely not. Like these are stiff.
They're the strongest ones you can get
from Harris, right?
>> Yes. Yeah. Um and then I go, "Trust me,
use the Lillebridge ones." And I used
them on like I was wrapping his knees
with these.
And then when I grabbed the Lillebridge
ones, they felt like paper. They felt so
thin compared to these. Yeah. And then
when I I was able to yeah, get more
revolutions, but with him he hated it.
Did he feel it was as stiff as them or
just couldn't get any bounce or No, it
was painful for him. Oh, right. Yeah, to
use the Lillebridge ones because it's
thinner and it kind of like cuts in.
It's a different sensation. Yeah. It's a
different level of elasticity. So so
that's why it's like I don't think we
should change.
>> Okay. All right. We use the same ones.
Sounds good.
That's important. Yeah.
>> Wraps are very important. Yeah. And it's
just like what's better or worse. Some
people it's like what He used to use the
Lillebridge wraps as well, but then they
stopped making them. So he was forced to
change. So I think that's the most
important thing. Just whatever you're
used to. Like of course we all have our
preferences, but if you're used to using
those, you're going to perform the best
in it.
Okay. So how many revolutions do you
normally do?
For the heavy ones? For this weight? Uh
same again, like six or seven.
>> Okay. Great. So I'll do a moderate wrap.
Yeah. All right. I'm going to give you a
bit of a knee wrapping tutorial with my
technique. He uses slightly different
one. So water, the best grip for these
things. Do you ever do that? No, is that
Mate, the best. People use People use
chalk.
I don't think that's the best strategy.
>> Water, yeah.
>> Water. And even like
Yeah. Wipe the water there. That grips,
right?
Now, this is how I like to start. I get
the center of this wrap. That's the
center point. I put that
exactly that center point right at the
bottom of his patella. So that's his
kneecap. See how he's flexing his quad?
So that puts That's what you want to be
doing. So if he's relaxed and I start
shifting his patella around, it's going
to hurt. So he needs to flex his quad.
I'm going to put the center of that
exactly at the base and center of his
patella. Now, first revolution, I go
pretty tight and I anchor that in.
That's the first revolution.
And I like to go
four up.
X over the patella.
And then tie it off.
How's that feel?
>> Yeah, perfect. Feels okay? Yeah, good.
Really good, yeah.
Same, dead center.
Four up. X over the patella.
And then one.
So that's seven revolutions. Now, here's
the thing. Every every
set we go tighter.
Perfect. Perfect. Let's do it.
>> [panting]
>> Just one, boss. One rep.
Easy. One rep the whole way up now.
>> [panting]
[snorts]
>> Good.
How's that? All right?
>> Good. So that's your first uh
feeling of that. I don't know if that
felt strange or That felt good, bro.
Felt the same?
>> Yeah. Okay, cool.
>> Felt good, bro. I'm going to go tighter
on the next ones. Yep. We'll go Harris
next one? Mhm. Yeah, sick.
You know when I think about it, I never
usually I've got different soft wraps to
you.
Yeah. And I would never really squat
more than 200 kg with my soft wraps.
These are my soft wraps, which are a
little bit softer than yours. Oh, okay.
So you're doing 230 with the soft wrap.
For me, I like Yeah, 200 was my mark.
But anyway, You used to use these
though, didn't you? Yeah, I did.
>> that in a tutorial video I watched?
>> No, that's what I did my first 350 in.
Holy [__] And they're soft wraps.
>> No, um
What's that?
>> In these soft wraps, you did 350? Yeah,
no. I was thinking it was those because
they used to be the They're Lillebridge
wraps.
Oh, [__]
>> Those are the original Lillebridge
wraps. Wow. Yeah, before Lillebridge
paired up with Pioneer.
[__] Yeah. So that's when he when they
came around the first time, but no,
that's right. I wasn't I didn't squat
350 in those. Yeah. I squatted 260 in
those. What were the Lillebridges like
as like as coaches? Like I I've looked
up to them since like the Dan Green like
2018, 2013. Yeah.
>> Like these are like [__] heroes to
me, like They're heroes to me as well.
Yeah. Yeah, that's why that's why it's
so like what were they like? Yeah, so
Eric was more like he's the athlete. Um
I don't want to say he didn't coach me.
Like he wrapped my knees and the amount
of advice the guy had was incredible.
But it was kind of like more his dad
that played more of the coaching role
with me. Yeah. And um they were
Something about them is
With with Ernie senior, so when I was
competing, he's like, you don't not
think about a single thing. You sit
there, the only thing you think about is
when you need to lift, I got you. That's
it. And I'm not used to that. So I'm
sitting there going, okay, um and he
goes, don't ask questions, I got you.
And it's like the time and I'm like, how
long and he goes, we've got He goes,
it's all under control. He had
everything under control and that's how
he was with Eric as well. Really? So
Eric and that's what I'd look at and
it's just like, that's why I don't want
to say that's the only reason why Eric
is so good. It's a huge factor in it.
Like Eric is a freak, but his dad is
just Eric just sits there, his dad takes
care of everything. The The Everything's
perfect. The timing for everything, it's
just perfection.
And that's why for me as a coach, I like
look at that and it's like that's how I
want to be. The attention to detail on
every single thing. Wrapping perfectly
every single time. Counting exactly how
you've done it. It's like, the first set
is five revolutions, the next one six
revolutions, then seven revolutions. And
and precision every single step of the
way.
I learned a lot of that from Ernie
senior.
His attention to detail was
the the best ever. But it makes sense,
Bass, cuz you look at Ernie junior, he's
around my weight and he's a freak. Like
he's he squats around 400. Yeah. Like he
Like everyone raves on about Eric and
Eric's the [__] man, but the his
older brother, is it Ernie? Cuz there's
Ernie Ernie senior, Ernie junior. He's
Is Eric's older brother? And he's world
record holder as well. Yeah, he's a
beast, man. Underrated. He's so good.
>> Because he's a lighter body weight and
people don't see the numbers as But
that's right. He was like all of them.
That's the same thing. The same level of
attention, same
um skill level and same strength level,
but just different body weight.
>> And their dad's like the OG. Like he's
he's he's awesome, man. Let's go. 280
next.
Um Tommy reached out to me actually. Um
but I met him at the competitions, you
know, small community. Powerlifting in
the world is a small community,
especially in Australia, it's even
smaller, obviously. And um I remember
um watching him compete at one of the
big Australian competitions.
And he was just like the most awesome
dude. Like look at the guy's
personality. He's just so happy and
friendly. But then when he gets under
the barbell,
he was just lifting everything that they
put on his back and it's like, oh my
goodness, how's he doing all of this?
Um yeah, anyway, so
I was hugely supportive of him and
that's how I am whenever I go to these
competitions is like I like to be
supportive of everybody and I don't
know, maybe that's why he reached out to
me cuz he thought that I was a nice
dude, I don't know.
Um but
yeah, so I started working with him. He
was already strong when I started
working with him. But you know, we've um
I don't want to say we've changed a huge
amount with him. He was alrea- already
good. We've gotten stronger since we
started working together, for sure. Uh
we've continued to move forward and uh
yeah, that's going to be that's going to
be my my biggest goal with him is to be
the world record holder in the 100 class
because I think he can do it. You know,
the first things first is we set the
first goal, which is 400 kg, 12 months.
Maybe he does it in the in in the next
competition, which is in um 5 and 1/2
months from now. I think it's possible.
I mean, you can never sneeze at 400 kg
and just say, yeah, we've got that
easily. He's done 382 in training. You
know, I think in the in the next
competition, even though it's a warm-up,
I think we'll we'll be able to tell from
today if he gets his 365 today, you
know, this is the strategy now is we
haven't been doing heavy singles. We've
been doing triples and fours and fives
up until literally last week. So last
week was the first week of singles.
He did um sorry, I should say last
fortnight, he did 345 kg. Um so now is
the is when we start introducing the
singles. And because it's 6 weeks out,
it doesn't mean we get 6 weeks of heavy
singles because what we like to do and
back to the Lily Bridges is use their
programming strategy, which is heavy
squats one week and that week is is
light deadlifts. And then the next week
is heavy deadlifts and light squats. So
his last deadlift session was light in
anticipation of today. So that means
he's only got three more heavy squat
sessions. So that's going to be 365
today
and then we calculate what's next. So in
2 weeks he could go 375 and then in 2
weeks he could go 385, but we don't
know.
Either way, so that's the strategy that
I learned from the Lily Bridges and that
thing helped me so much. So
understanding, and this is one of the
common mistakes that people make, is
powerlifters have to do a squat and and
a bench press and a deadlift and doing
all three of those heavy in one week,
especially at the highest levels, they
interfere with each other for recovery.
So especially the spine loading
exercises like the squat and the
deadlift. So the Lily Bridge method is
to actually do that on the same day. So
on day one you go heavy squats, so so
work work up to a max
one max attempt and then you do deloads
accessory work with light deadlifts. And
then the next week you flip that, so you
go big heavy set of deadlifts and then
accessory work on lighter squats.
So that's the strategy that I've kind of
like I've learned a lot from, but I do
it in a slightly different way. I don't
do it on the same day. So we're not
going to be deadlifting today. The Lily
Bridges do. Not saying it's wrong, just
saying I just don't, that's all. So he's
doing
the same strategy where we go heavy
squats today
and then the next session is going to be
a light set of squats, which we're going
to talk a little bit about about his
programming strategy. So what we
normally do with his So the the funny
thing is you call it light squats, it's
light relative to what we're doing. What
does that mean?
Well, it's 80% of what we're going to be
doing today. That's what's going to be
on the program, which
Yeah, 275 for two sets of five. So
that's his light So next week that's
your light That's his light week is 275.
So a lot of people look at that and say,
that's light?
Well, in relative terms, yeah, it is.
For for it to contribute to his strength
moving forward,
it has to be heavy. Your light sessions
are heavy. But what does heavy mean?
It's 80% of what we're doing today,
which yeah, it's going to be 275 for two
sets of five next week. I'm going to go
like 90% Yep. Not 100% tight, but still
[__] tight. Yeah, sick. Okay. I've
I've got to get used to this as well.
>> Yeah. Okay. All right, let's go. Let go.
Okay, so you just hold in place where
you feel comfortable for you. Is that
comfortable?
>> Yep, that's perfect.
>> [snorts]
>> Let's do them. All right. Do you get
someone to line you up normally to make
sure you're centered? Yeah. Yeah. I'm
I'm going to do that and then run
around. When you say that, I'm going to
run around, okay?
Beautiful.
Perfect. Perfect.
>> [snorts]
[sighs]
>> Nice.
Come in. Come in.
Good job.
So those revolutions,
I'm going to do exactly the same for the
next set. Like it So that was eight
revolutions. Was that eight? Yeah,
right. Yeah, sick.
So I'm going to do the next one eight,
but tighter eight. Yep. And then I don't
think I'll get 10 on those. Does anyone
ever get 10 on those? Uh Colin does, but
he's only done it once. Right. Once.
Yeah, right.
>> So nine's eight and nine's good. The way
that I'm feeling that is like that
wasn't maxed out, but eight's pretty
tight.
>> Very tight, yeah. Yeah, so nine is uh I
think nine's good. We usually go nine.
Okay. Yeah. Now, do you have pliers
normally? Pliers? Or or a wrap to get
them through? Uh I got a strap I get I
use a strap.
>> Yeah. Let's do that for the next one cuz
this is The other ones are they're quite
stiff for me to just shove with my
fingers. My go-to for music,
uh I love a song called Kingdom by Down
St.
People laugh at me. So it's it's it's my
favorite wrestler's song, Cody Rhodes. I
It's my It's my PB song. Otherwise, I
like a bit of Venom by Eminem cuz Thor
and Bass use that song. So that one's
pretty good, too.
You can't beat Eminem. Like he's the
[__] man.
You know, who do you listen to, Bass?
Venom is my PB song. Yeah, Venom's a
[__] banger. Yeah.
I remember at my last comp pro raw,
I was able to get the DJ to have my
exact playlist for all of my attempts.
Was that E Mad? Well, yeah, E Mad owned
the federation.
>> Yeah, yeah. Um but yeah, I was like,
come on, bro, you got to get your DJ to
have this on. So he had um I think it
was like Limp Bizkit was one of them.
Yeah.
Um Rage Against the Machine was the
second one. So Killing in the Name Of.
Yeah, that's a good song. And then
the my top set was Venom,
Eminem. Yeah, that's a banger cuz Thor
uses that, too, don't they? That's where
I heard it the first time.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that was actually
when Venom was brand new. Yeah. He came
in and it was just like one of his PB
songs. And a lot of the times when I
train with Thor, it's exactly you, how
you're saying that was your favorite
wrestler's song cuz that puts you in a
certain mindset. You know, and when I'm
there with Thor, like you'll see now
it's like I get involved when you're
lifting. I'm like I get a big adrenaline
rush as well when my lifters are
lifting. And when I'm over there with
Thor, like I've seen him deadlift 470 kg
raw. You know what I mean? You get
adrenaline, bro. Like it's full on. And
so the music that's playing there, it
gives me that association. Yeah. So,
like that's the experience that I had
there when it was just like, "Woah, this
was the most the highest performance
that I've ever witnessed." And that's
the music that was on. And then I come
back and we're training and that song
comes on. I'm like, "Takes you straight
back." Boom, it takes you back. You can
see it though in your in the way you
like encourage and coaching. Like you're
[__] invested, like Yeah, I get
invested when we get to the top set.
>> Yeah, because like I'm sitting there and
it's like, I need your success as well.
You know what Yeah, [__] it up. Let's
get this, man. You know what I mean?
>> Yeah, [__] it up. And [snorts] so I get
you know, I'm not just screaming for
you, I'm screaming for me. I'm like,
"I'm so excited with this, man. Let's
get this, bro." Yeah, cuz you put in a
lot of work. Well, I just care that your
lifts are [__] good, bro. It's
exciting for me.
>> Yeah. You know?
>> Oh, yeah. It's what [clears throat] we
work for. So,
um I think also I think also if you've
got a coach that's been there and done
it,
Yeah. like that that understands what
you're going through. I think that is a
huge I agree. huge [__] plus.
>> I agree. Yeah. Which is which is the
standard that I hold myself to. Yeah.
It's like and that's what I love. It's
like when I'm working with you, I know
what this is about to feel like.
I know what you're going through. And so
when I sit there and say, "Okay, this is
how it's going to go." I know. Yeah.
Whereas when I work with people that
have no idea and they're like, "Come on,
Bass." Yeah. Let's go, mate. You you
know, I reckon you should sit in the
other end. Yeah, yeah. Go over there,
please. You know what I mean? Exactly,
yeah.
Go, Bass. Yeah.
Come on, Tommy. Just so you know, I've
done 365 on that before. I watched it.
Is that when you paused? Yeah. Yeah. It
was so funny. Yeah. You see James Yaman
behind me? Yeah. So, he's like
standing behind going like this.
It was the funniest thing. Oh, Jesus.
Yeah, that's how he was he was going
Yeah. Cuz he's [__] himself just
going, "I don't know what to do."
Literally [__] shaking. Wasn't Rayson
Vasser on the either side?
>> No, no. No one was there. I it was just
me, him, and Benny or Bass, my um
old videographer was he was he was here
and the whole thing was just so [__]
hilarious. Come here, watch this.
He doesn't know what to do. He's pissed
off. They're just staring at me.
And he closes the rack and then they
walk off. Did we piss off?
Of course. Yeah.
I just missed the spot.
>> they were afraid Yeah, were they afraid
to say something or
>> Yeah, good.
>> [laughter]
>> Of course.
There's not much to be said. Yeah, good.
Good job, Bass. You gave it your all.
Yeah, no. Get out of my [__] face.
You would hate that. Yeah. You would
hate that.
>> There's not much to be said. Yeah. We we
have jokes about that. We have jokes
about that where you fail the top lift,
everyone look at the ground and walk
away.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. Right? There is nothing you can
say.
You know what I mean? Look at the ground
and [__] walk away. That's how I'm
sitting there going So, someone said,
"Are you all right?" Would you go off?
No. Does it look like I'm all right? I'm
[__] great. Yeah. Thanks. How are
you? That's what that's what the
conversation I'm good.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, good, thanks. I'm good, thanks.
Oh, man.
Yeah, how are you? Yeah. That's what I
would have done.
That's what my my back of my head was
bleeding. Oh. Oh, was it? I didn't see
that. Yeah, because this thing is just
scraped over the top of my [__] head.
Holy [__] Yeah, yeah. Well, what
happens when you get smacked in the head
with a 365 kg barbell?
Something.
You know you know what I mean? Yeah,
yeah. Have you ever paused that before
before that video? No. Yeah. My best was
350 double pause.
>> Yeah. So, you actually you you in your
head you're like, "This will be [__]
easy."
>> get it, but I just wasn't peaked well.
So, the week before 2 weeks before I did
350 double, but I wasn't peaked well. I
didn't deserve that weight on that day.
And um yeah, so we're just talking about
failing strategies. And
you know, some of you who've been
following me long enough know my the
famous belt throw. I was just saying to
Tommy the biggest fail that I've had
here, I've done 365 here. I went for a
paused squat.
And on that day I was with
two
of my team. So, I had one spotter
behind, James. There's not much he can
do from behind. And I had my
videographer and they were standing here
just looking at me on the ground
like that for a while going, "What do I
do?"
And I'm just sitting there just I had my
knee wraps on and I'm I'm wrapping my
knee wraps. I had my belt on. I'm
wrapping I'm just sitting there just
burning. And Tommy just asked me, "What
would you have done if
someone said like someone said something
to you?" And I'm like, "Probably
wouldn't have been happy." Like what's
what's to say at that point? I'll tell
you the etiquette at that point.
Everyone in the room, the etiquette is
this, you look to the ground and you
walk away quietly. That's right. That's
that's what you do. And then he said he
said, "Well, what if someone was said to
you,
'You all right?'"
>> [laughter]
>> And I was just reenacting like what I'd
probably say if someone said to me, "You
all right?" I'd be like,
"I'm [__] great, thanks. How are
you?"
That's what I would have said.
>> [laughter]
>> That's what I would have said.
I'm [__] excellent.
Look at me.
Oh, Jesus.
But that's what It would have been fine,
yeah. If it's it's hilarious afterwards.
I laugh about it afterwards, but at the
time it's like,
"Please just no one talk to me. No one
talk to me. You know what I mean? Just
let me be."
And I think that's the the approach.
Right now, what we're going to do is
we're going to start to switch on. We're
going to put some music on.
Good.
Beautiful. Beautiful.
Good. Good job, bro. Pull up. Yep, just
pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Pull
up.
>> Yep.
Good.
All right, let's have a look.
So, I'm going to get you to
hold the wrap in place when I wrap you
next time.
We're going to rectify that. You're just
going to keep on squatting.
Okay. So,
this is what we're doing now, right? So,
right now, no technical cues, nothing.
He's got to squat 365 today, right? He
can see what he needs to do. I'm not
going to give him anything.
His technique is good and then there's
just a little tiny things that he can
make adjustments on that he knows and he
feels.
Right? Of course, if he was doing
something just blatantly wrong, I'd be
correcting him from behind or I'd be
saying things like if it's a safety
issue.
But
on the next So, now it's about feeling
the weight. The back down sets is where
we make any corrections if anything
because right now that we're at the
heavy end, next set's going to be 325
kg.
There's no more time for adjusting. You
got to keep doing this now and then
yeah, you do the any technical
corrections as we're warming up with the
really light weights
as well as the back down weight. What I
would do for you on a comp Yeah. So, on
a comp day I'm opening you up on the
[__] tightest wrap. Yeah, perfect.
You know what I mean? Easy. Yeah. We go
as tight as possible. [__] There's no
holding back. Yeah.
That was good.
Yeah, bro.
>> [sighs and panting]
[sighs]
>> Smooth.
I was going to go I got to go deeper.
Little bit deeper. Yep.
Little bit deeper.
>> it now. I'm feeling it now. Yeah, that's
good.
>> Yeah.
So, that's something that I
saw with Tommy before I started working
with him is his opening attempts on his
squats in comp were hard.
And I was like, "Okay, if that's his
opener, maybe he didn't do that right."
And then his second attempt was like
whatever 10 or 20 kilos heavier.
He got it. It was also hard. I'm like,
"All right, you're all right.
Okay, I think that's his limit."
Then he puts his third attempt on and it
was like Australian record.
This is back when I think it was like
pro raw it was about 360 squat on pro
raw or something like that. The
Australian record it wasn't easy.
Neither was the first So, that was the
third attempt in his competition.
So, no, it wasn't easy. It was all hard.
The second attempt was hard and the
first attempt was hard.
>> My warm ups always look wild really
hard. So, that's what Like so just then
when he did the 280, I was looking at
that going,
"Smooth." Yeah. That's what I was
thinking.
Okay, it's smooth. Like I hope he wakes
up.
And then I go, "How are you feeling?" He
goes, "Yeah, good."
I'm like, "All right, if you say so."
And then 305 came on and it was the
same. And then 325 came on and it it was
actually looked even stronger. Looked
even stronger. So, have more weight. So,
every set that you've done, I look at it
I don't look at it and go, "Does he have
365?" I look at it and say, "Does he
have the next set?" Yeah. And the answer
is yes, you do. You do. Got to earn it.
And I would like for the next
for the 320 345, which is next,
I would like
that I know it's going to be slow,
but I need you to show me that you got
the 365 after that, which I know you
will.
I know you will.
Good.
Yeah. Nice.
Yep.
Good job, brother.
>> [sighs]
>> [__] hell.
But, we're going [clears throat] to
manage the depth on the next set. You're
just going to go down and up with 365.
You take a seat.
Difference between this and last set, we
aren't going to talk now. You sit down.
We're going to wait 10 minutes.
Okay, and you're just going to chill.
And all you need to do is go down and
up.
Then we're going to do some corrections
after.
>> [music]
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
[__] yeah.
[__] yeah. Let's go.
Sit.
>> [music]
>> Sit hard.
I was standing [__] so close
because I thought
I might have to step in here, but I
didn't.
Not even close.
Show me. What do you honestly think? Be
brutal.
It's shallow.
Like you wouldn't upload it.
Yeah. It's a training
We're going to pause work.
And you have to sink it.
Okay. We're going to 275. Okay.
>> [panting and sighs]
>> All right. How are you feeling, bro? You
all right? Yeah, good, bro. Take a seat.
Take a seat. So, that's like
Are you happy with that or are you in
pain?
>> I'm happy with it. It's a training lift.
It's not good enough for comp. Okay. Do
you know what I'm saying? Yeah. There's
no two ways about it. It's shallow.
But,
this is something right now
that where
you know, we are aware of the squat
depth that's required in competition
right now. So, Tommy's like this
competition is like an interim comp. And
so, we haven't really been It's not like
a proper peak. This is week two of heavy
singles. Before that, he's been doing
high reps. And that's another part of um
you know, peaking and heavy singles is
familiarizing yourself with
what a heavy weight feels like on your
back. So, for for Tommy, this is only
week two of heavy. Last week was 345 or
two weeks ago 345. What was the heaviest
he did before that?
>> 300 for four. So, he was doing rep work
and 300 for four was the heaviest he'd
done, which is heavy, but compare that
to 365, it's it's a fair bit different.
So, right now, as he's coming down, he's
super cautious.
Very slow.
You know what I mean? Like that's
because he hasn't felt this weight on
his back in a while. And that's the
whole idea. You can't just do rep work
and then come in and go,
"Well, I did, you know, this amount of
reps for four reps or whatever I was
doing for fives or sixes or whatever
that rep work, so therefore that
translates over to a heavy single."
To me, I say that means you have the
strength to do that heavy single, but
now we need to develop the skill to do
that heavy single. Right? So, right now,
it's like, okay, cool. He's felt that
weight on his back. So, because of that,
he's learned a lot. Like his body
understands a little bit more about what
it's going to take to feel that weight.
In two more weeks, we're going to do
another heavy single, but right now
another purpose of the back down work,
we're going to do pause squats. The idea
of a pause, I'm going to strip the
weight right off. We're going to start
with 225. And I want him to sink it, sit
in the hole for a second, and then
stand. So, he understands what that
feeling is. And then we're just going to
gradually go up. So, the idea is like
what you're doing next week is 80% of
this. So, that's 275. So, we're going to
do a warm-up set just to feel it of a
pause, and then we're going to do 275
for pause after that. You sit down.
Good stuff, brother. You've sat down in
the chair. And then not like you're
hovering and then you're standing or
slowing down and then standing. That's
not counted. Come. Bang. Dead stop.
Boom.
Okay? So, you felt 365, so 275 on your
back should feel like
not that bad. You know what I mean?
Okay. So, 225 next. I'll wrap you with a
kind of softish wrap. You got the red
wraps? No. Still use those. Yeah, right.
I've just got eight revolutions Yeah,
right. instead of nine. Sweet. Okay?
Give honest feedback from
Honest feedback is
we need to lower the expectations to be
at 365
six weeks out from a
qualifier. I I know that you'll be able
to sink this in a few weeks. Yeah, but
this is where the groundwork comes in.
So, right now, pause squats,
I need you to sink this. Okay? So, we're
going to start at 225, light wrap. Yep.
>> Just for one rep just to feel what that
>> Hey? Nah. Just to feel what that pause
is going to be like, and then we're
going to go 275. Sorry, I did say 375.
I'm making it a habit of saying the
wrong numbers. I know.
Still, bro. One pause rep.
I'm going to tell you where to pause it.
And I'm going to tell you when to stand.
Okay?
You hold your breath from start to
finish.
Just one rep, all right?
Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep
going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep
going. Keep going. Keep going. Hit.
And rack.
Up.
How was that?
Borderline, bro.
Borderline. I'll show you.
You got to push down.
Okay? What do you mean like push down?
Like
Look.
That's where you are.
And I'm telling you to keep going. Keep
going. Keep going. That's where you are.
I feel like I'm like bending more.
You need to sit
Drive the knees out harder. Push the
knees forward. Drive it out harder and
sit.
>> So, instead of doing that, upright, sit.
So, like that.
Stand wider. Not like that. Stand. Good.
Upright. Sit. Go.
Keep going. Keep going. Upright. Deeper.
Deeper. Deeper.
Why do you keep standing back up?
You're you're hesitating down. Sit.
Pause.
That's where you need to be.
Right here? Deeper. You just stood up.
There.
And up. Right?
You'll have a heavy weight on your back
and your knees wrapped to hold you in
position.
When you go 275, and you know, I I want
you to drop faster into that.
Like you're hovering so long just there.
What do Why are you so slow at that
point?
>> I just keep arching bending my back when
I should be pushing. This is the thing
with tight knee wraps.
It's deceiving. You think that it's
maxed out. They haven't. You got to keep
bending.
They haven't maxed out. You got to keep
on bending. You know, maybe that's the
strategy with your knee wraps because
we're we're very short with yours. So,
bundles up at the back and restricts
depth. So, what you're saying, make them
longer?
Maybe.
Yeah, right. I might try it on the next
set.
We're just going to do one set, okay?
One set on 275. You're the best in the
country.
You know what I mean? The numbers that
I've I've got you to do is
just easily what you can do. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
You need to have the confidence. And
this is the thing with you hovering
there and being slow. [__] push. Sit.
Hold. Boom.
Okay? Cool.
Upright. Knees out and forward. Upright
hard. Sink it.
Let's go again. Upright hard.
Sink it.
UP. GO.
LET'S GO. UPRIGHT HARD.
SINK. UP.
>> [sighs]
>> LET'S GO, TOMMY. COME ON. UPRIGHT.
UP.
>> [screaming]
>> ONE MORE.
UPRIGHT HARD.
UP.
GOOD JOB.
YEP. UP. UP. UP.
YEP. YEP. Good job.
Good.
Way better.
All right.
Good job.
Better? Yeah, way better.
Good.
>> [sighs]
>> Good. Let me send this to you. So,
that's technique session pretty much
finished. He's going to do leg
extensions and hamstring curls now. That
stuff is just additional volume. So, at
this level, he's
beaten up real bad. Like that's a very
heavy squat for him. You know, he's a
100 kilo lifter. 365 kg on his back.
That's very very heavy. You know, a lot
of people look at how much total volume
should you be doing in a session? And
you know, a lot of people have whatever
ideas. It's usually like three top sets
and then accessories and and all these
things. Right now,
I'll tell you now, that took us about an
hour and a half, maybe even closer to
two hours. What do you reckon, Tommy?
>> Yeah,
about 2 hours, yeah.
>> That was about 2 hours, and all we
really got in there was one big top set.
That's the 365, which, you know, it was
great, but it was shallow. It was. And
then we did 275 kg. We hit the depth
uh for five paused reps.
Uh and now he's just going to do his
easy stuff. So, now we go back to the
drawing board
uh and next week is going to be
accessories, and then the week that he
comes back to his heavy session, uh you
know, that's what we're going to do is
just go deeper and deeper. Anyway, hope
you enjoyed that session.
Uh if there's anything that you want to
see next, let me know in the comments.
Tommy, where do we find you, brother?
Instagram? _
_ Tommy Hardy We'll write it down. Yeah,
put it in the bio, yeah. We'll write it
down. Watch this space. So, that'll be
good to see. 6 weeks' time, we're going
to see what comes from this. So, uh
great session. I'll see you guys next
time.